[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: All right, so let's jump in.
Let's talk about parallel versus async.
Metaphorically, if we try to understand
what parallel is versus async,
most people conflate those and think
that they're basically the same thing or
JavaScripts version of parallel
is called async or whatever.
It's not really the case.
Only at the highest level if you
really squinted from 50,000 feet up.
Might you look at parallelism and
asynchronicity and
say they're the same thing.
There's important differences.
So let me give you metaphorically
how to kind of work through that.
Parallelism versus non-parallelism,
which we'll sort of group asynchronicity
into non-parallelism for
now and I'll explain that more.
So non-parallelism would be
like you waiting in line at
amusement park for a roller coaster.
Lots of people in line and you finally
get up to the front of the line.
There's a roller coaster there with 30
seats on it but they only let you on.
And you're the only person that
can ride at any given point.
So even though there's capacity for
30 people to ride, at any given moment,
only one person is riding the ride.
That would be non-parallel.
We'll give those different
terms in a moment.
They'd be non-parallel versus
if you waited in line.
You got up there and then 30 people
loaded onto the roller coaster.
And when the roller coaster is running,
all 30 of you are experiencing the roller
coaster at exactly the same instant.
That's more parallelism.
So in a computing sense,
parallelism is expressed through threads.
Most commonly expressed through threads.
The idea that I could have one
thread on one CPU core in my system.
And another thread.
They're are kind of like queues of actions
that need to happen, or operations and
need to happen.
At any given instant, one core could
be doing one of those operations, and
in exactly that same moment,
another operation could be
happening on a different core.
That's true.
Honest to goodness parallelism.
Now, even with the most powerful of
the machines that you may have out there.
You may have a 16 core,
or maybe you have a 32.
Most of us probably have 4,
8 cores in our computers.
32 threads is not nearly enough to run a
modern operating system with the types of
thing, the multitasking that we do
with running all the programs we run.
Even your browser, your single browser
might take up 10 or 15 threads just for
basic operations that
it does on a web page.
So if you've ever opened up
the Task Manager of Chrome and
seen all the processes that are running,
it runs an awful lot of stuff In parallel.
So because we don't have infinite numbers
of cores, the operating system actually
has a layer that we would
call sort of virtual threads.
And it takes care of scheduling
the virtual threads.
It can hand out tens
of thousands of those.
And it takes care of trying to
schedule those across the cores so
that they're happening as and
as much in parallel as possible.
From the perspective of your programming,
you don't really care about that or
even know what cores they're running on.
You just assume that these two things are
on separate threads, that the operating
system will do the right thing and
make sure that they're running separately.
Right, so obviously parallelism
is about optimization, right?
If I've got a bunch of things to do.
I don't wanna wait to do the second set
of tasks until the first set of tasks is
finished, if it's possible to do both at
the same time, if I can get done faster,
that's much better.
Parallelism is about optimization.
All right, so that explains parallelism.
What about asynchronicity?
Well, asynchronicity,
the world that we live in,
in asynchronicity,
moves us to a single thread.
The programming inside of our JavaScript
runs entirely on a single thread even
though the browser may have access to
multiple threads and even the JavaScript
engine node for example could use
hundreds of threads in the background.
But our program only
runs in a single thread.
At any given instant there is only
one line of JavaScript running
in the JavaScript engine.
You could in theory spend multiple
instances of the JavaScript engine
on entirely separate threads and
yes that would be that would look like
multithreaded programming but they
couldn't communicate in any useful way.
Web workers is an example of
trying to bridge that gap.
Web workers is a way of spinning
up an entirely separate thread but
that's not a JavaScript thing,
that's a browser thing.
The web platform defines
the notion of web workers.
Spins up in a whole separate thread,
a whole separate instance
of the JavaScript engine.
As JavaScript is concerned, those two
things don't know about each other
they don't have any overlap, they're
not sharing variables, there's nothing.
The good news is, we don't have to
worry about any of the nonsense that
threaded programming as to where.
We don't have to deal with new taxes and
semaphores and
all of the craziness and
shared resource locking.
We know that only one function
can be running in a given time.
And if you have two separate JavaScript
engines running, it doesn't matter because
they're not gonna be operating
over the same shared space anyway.
Now, web workers fortunately do
give us a communication path
through asynchronous events.
So even though they are functionally
operating on independent threads.
They cannot communicate in a threaded
fashion, they have to communicate back on
that single threaded notion
through the event loop.